	1. What do you consider to be your best skill ?
	
	I'm a quick learner. So far I have been mastering on the CI Technologies. I have come across many version tool. I will be able to adopt the technology used in your organization quickly.
	
	2. In five years, where do you see yourself 
	I want to grow as SME on devops tools, Team lead and manage the team, I'm very passionate about learning new thing and new technology. And I want to get well exposure. Take initiation. And team juniors.
	
	3. Why do you choose this company? 
	Job profile,  well established company spread across the globe. And read reviews. The job profile is best suited, this is what 'm aspiring in my career. Its give a good platform and technical exposure
	
	4. What is your weakness you have that you really want to improve upon?

	5. If you are not able to complete work how you will convivence the counterpart
	1st thing is informing the delay. Then later mail communication for a genuine reason y it got delayed.
	
	6. Why should I take you. What benefit can I expect from you
	I believe that I meet the minimum requirement for this position.
	I accomplish the given task with the most dedication and perfectness with all its success
	
	So far in the current org I was able to meet the given task with the given dead line. Apart from this my words cannot justify my action until I get right oppurtunity to perform  so I will be very privilieged If you avail me this opportunity.
	
	Strength,
	
	I don't think 'm best at a particular thing or I have mastered something very well. Definetly I will also be lagging in something. But so far I believe I'm quite good at professional atmosphere. I get jellup very soon with any of my collegye, people will enjoy my company and I can handle any kind of work pressure.
	
	
	Weekness:
	
	In my early stage of my carrier  I  used to be very bad public speaker. I really got nervous when I have to face lot of people I never could even deliver the proper speech. But with passage of time, I have accepted this chanllenge and I struggleda lot, now I guess that I have overcome the fear of public speech. I must be carrying other weeknesss also but that doesn't harm any of my carrier.
	
	
	
	
	IBC knowledge park 
	
	Medical Insurance - 4 lakh(group team )  for parents (top up)
	Gratuity - 
	Leave - 30 days
	Transportation - Free / not door to door pick up
	Maternity - 180 days
	WFH - Flexi
	India Reward and Recognition 
	Crech facility
	Female paid certain amount - who has kids (up to 6 years)
	3 months appraisal -  Individual performance
	
	
	Thanks everyone.
	
	It was great learning experience while working with you all. Though we have not met personally yet but I would really miss this team this is because of all your support I received during my tenure.
	
	Also I would like to Thank Dieter and Sudhish for guiding me time to time and giving me the opportunity to learn and excel in my carrier. You both have been very supportive  also I would like say you both are the best managers I have worked so far. Thanks again for the support an guidance. 
	
	Also I would like to thank Jo-anne for the support and believing in me while assigning the task also assisting me with all my silly queries and doubts
	While working with jo-anne I would say I have learnt professionally  as well as personally.  As everyone know she is a great human being , I really like the way she present in our team call and during one to one.
	
	I personally would also like to Thank each and everyone chaitra, Ram , animesh, sujan, Ridhima, Suchithra

